chore(docs): Add meeting notes for the 2026-06-01 TSC meeting. (#2433)
open-component-model/open-component-model: docs/steering/meeting-notes/2026-05-04.md

### Technical Steering Committee Representatives

- [x] Jakob Möller - SAP
- [x] Gerald Morrison - SAP
- [x] Fabian Burth - SAP
- [x] Frederic Wilhelm - SAP
- [x] Philipp Heil - SAP

> - [x] Gergely Bräutigam - Individual Contributor

Reviewer: @jakobmoellerdev didn't we agree to change that to Kubermatic?

Author: We did. let me correct this

Author: adjusted

    - [ ] Gergely to start setting up official guidance for how to interact with SIG Runtime (plannings, meetings, etc.)
      - [ ] Planning / OCM Backlog (<https://github.com/orgs/open-component-model/projects/10>) should be migrated to SIG Runtime.
      - [ ] SIG Runtime needs a contribution guideline and reference to established processes.
        - Gergely to create a PR with the guidelines and ceremonies
      - [ ] Philipp to help with the PRs and both to think about how to enforce that governance
  - [X] Confirm SIG Runtime Ceremonies, make them available for Maintainers to join
    - Ceremonies are open-sourced, but calendar is still private until LFX Project is "Live" State
    - Jakob: Let's get rid of Maintainer Group in favor of SIG Runtime, or at least sync them up
      - Discussion led to Maintainer Group Need of Governance under TSC
      - [ ] Gergely to reference Maintainer group as part of SIG Runtime for formalization
  - [ ] All of TSC to review and extend (i.e. Security Guidelines and Contribution Guidelines on Governance)
- [X] Update on TAC / TSC
- [ ] Open Agenda
  - [X] Draft PR for ODG CLI - <https://github.com/open-component-model/community/pull/4>

>     - Jakob to fixup the misleading comment on OWNERS.md as its unspecified. Use CODEOWNERS only for maintenance of permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Jakob to fix the misleading comment on OWNERS.md as it is unspecified. Use CODEOWNERS only for maintenance of permissions.
```

    - TSC to consider CI / Unit Testing as a prerequisite due to our own security posture
  - [X] TSC Admission of Jonas Brand
  - [X] Status of Security Guidelines - <https://github.com/neonephos/guidelines-development/pull/7>
  - [ ] OCM License

## Votes

> * Upcoming vote on superseding of one TSC Member of OCM Core in favor of an ODG Member to equalize Balance of Power

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Upcoming vote on replacing of one TSC member of OCM Core in favor of an ODG member to equalize balance of power
```

  * Admission Candidate: Jonas Brand
  * Superseding: TBD

## Action Items

- [ ] Revisit Action Items
  - [ ] Jakob to open follow-up PR to note on v2 and SIG Runtime in NeoNephos
    - Collaboration on Website now unblocked (was private before), Jakob preparing PR
    - [ ] Gergely to start setting up official guidance for how to interact with SIG Runtime (plannings, meetings, etc.)
      - [ ] Planning / OCM Backlog (<https://github.com/orgs/open-component-model/projects/10>) should be migrated to SIG Runtime.
      - [ ] SIG Runtime needs a contribution guideline and reference to established processes.
        - Gergely to create a PR with the guidelines and ceremonies
      - [ ] Philipp to help with the PRs and both to think about how to enforce that governance
- [ ] Gergely to reference Maintainer group as part of SIG Runtime for formalization (Jakob to support on demand)

> - [ ] OCM License

Reviewer 3: That is a bit unspecific :D Any concrete actionable task here?

Author: You were present in the meeting :D as you remember it was just a revisit on updates because theres nothing to say except were waiting for legal. can add that but probably non critical

Author: added a specific content

- [ ] All of TSC to review and extend (i.e. Security Guidelines and Contribution Guidelines on Governance)

## Next Meeting Agenda

> - Vote on superseding of one TSC Member of OCM Core in favor of an ODG Member to equalize Balance of Power

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Vote on replacing of one TSC member of OCM Core in favor of an ODG member to equalize balance of power
```
